[Music]
I hope you enjoyed this episode brought
to you by our sponsors at whoop you can
save 15% off your purchase when you go
to whoop calm and use the code I tee at
checkout now enjoy the episode hey
everybody welcome to impact theory with
everything going on in the world right
now we all need to make sure that we're
taking the time to prioritize our own
self-care so on this special episode of
impact theory we've gathered self-care
tips from some of our incredible guests
to help you guys incorporate these
practices into your own life so get
ready to prioritize you with our first
guest the one and only Les Brown
the easiest thing I've done was to get
out from under the labels and to live
the life that I live the most difficult
thing I've ever done was to believe that
I can do it what's the difference the
difference is that when you don't know
what's impacting you and it's it's
something that that's holding you down
and you're not aware of it the great
anthropologist Margaret Mead was at a
restaurant in London and and a guy was
serving her and said there's several
Americans here tonight and she said is
that right yes let me know when you
serve them dessert I'll tell you exactly
how many are here he said oh you
couldn't possibly and so he came back
and said okay I've done it and she got
up and she walked around and she came
back and she said they're around 25 here
and he looked at the roster how did you
know that say in America we eat
differently from you when we eat a
dessert you eat it from the crust toward
the tip we did from the tip toward the
cross well you need a slice of pie how
do you eat yours I definitely have from
the tip back to the cross for sure yeah
okay and so so there are things that we
you in my situation you live in a
dominant culture that is designed to
destroy your sense of self and your
belief in yourself and and you have to
learn ways in which you can begin to
connect with this power that you have
within yourself to handle where you are
the key is to be constantly in a
perpetual process of discovering the
truth of who you are and fighting
constantly to look for ways in which you
can escape the inner conversation I
speak to audiences around the world an
hour and I've trained speakers as well
and I tell them that when you speak that
there's that there's an objective that
you want to achieve when you speak to an
audience because how people live their
lives as a result of the story they
believe about themselves so you as a
speaker when you speak
this problem when people see you what
you do is distract dispute and inspire
you distract people from their current
story with your guests and the questions
that you ask through the process of the
ongoing questioning and the way in which
they respond and the things they have
learned you dismantle their current
belief system and inspire them to create
a new chapter with their lives and so
but that's an ongoing process of
constantly interrupting that
conversation what psychologists call you
self explanatory style because life is
going to beat up on you in so many ways
and many things they come back you know
negative thoughts and and how you feel
about yourself they don't die they they
come back once you stop doing the
maintenance work on your mind so why is
movement specifically so important to
mental well-being I almost don't even
know where to begin with this I mean you
can start with the data if you just look
at the data around the world every
country you can imagine that it has been
studied in every age group every health
status every gender every socioeconomic
status people who are more physically
active or happier they have better
relationships they're more meaning in
life they're less at risk for things
like depression and loneliness if you go
further than just sort of that kind of
epidemiology and you look at how
movement affects the brain and how
movement affects mental health
it's as if humans were born to move and
when we are physically active it puts us
in a state of not just body but of mind
to be the best version of ourselves you
know everything from the neuro chemistry
of the runner's high which makes us
enjoy cooperating with other people more
and gives us hope and optimism all the
way to how if you are regularly active
you have a different brain and nervous
system than people who don't exercise
you have a brain and a nervous system
that are more sensitive to pleasure and
more resilient to stress I could
literally just talk for the next hour
listing the many ways
but I think that the biggest takeaway is
that that human beings as individuals
and as a species we thrive when we are
active that that our brains aren't just
housed in bodies like it's a suitcase
that's carrying our brains around our
brains really work best when we are in
bodies that are active you actually
talked about in the book how it's quite
possible that the very reason we
developed large brains was to move give
us some of the science behind that one
thing that I found in my own life was
once I could understand the biological
mechanisms once I knew why things were
the way that they were it became easier
not to be a slave to it that then I sort
of understood my sense of agency within
the meatsuit as it were so where does
the hypothesis that our brains were
created to move us come from yeah this
is I mean this is an idea that I feel
like you can't even explain it this is
an idea that if you look at the
structure and the function of the brain
everything that humans do other than
think is a form of movement you know
communicating language emotion
expressions labor finding food
celebration procreation it's all a
physical action and the idea is
basically other than think and ruminate
and plan that's you know that there is
no other reason to have a brain except
to interact with the world and even like
thinking is subservient to our ability
to engage with the world
and so basically we have a brain that
scaffold every type of interaction we
have with the world which is movement
and I think it's it's not even like a
fancy idea it's it that just is true
some of the things you talk about the
book in terms of the consequences of the
way that we're interacting with our
digital devices it's if you're right
about the cause it's pretty terrifying
and I don't think anyone's gonna argue
the sort of realities about mental
health issues about attempted or
hospitalizations due to attempted
suicide I mean it's pretty crazy yeah it
really is I mean I think it's getting
stark that having this thing as a
constant companion it's not good for us
and what's important about this to
understand is that it's also not
fundamental so this behavior of
constantly looking at the phone it's not
intrinsic to this technology in fact we
had both social media and smartphones
for years before it became normal to
look at your phone all the time the
reason we do that and this is the
behavior that's causing all these issues
the reason we do that is that around the
point when the major social media
platforms were preparing for their IPOs
they completely re-engineered the social
media experience so instead of it being
about posting and reading your friends
post it became about this steady
incoming stream of social approval
indicators like likes and retweets and
photo tags and comments and so now you
had a reason to keep going back to the
phone because every time you hit this
there might be another reward there
another indication of social approval
none of that was in the original social
media model but they added it because it
changed it from something you checked
every once in a while that's something
that you checked all the time and it was
really hard to resist and then that
changed our entire relationship with
these devices and so now we think about
something we look at all the time it
sort of trained us to think of it like
this constant companion that we always
need to be looking at in every down time
but that's a very recent and it's very
contrived and it's causing a lot of
trouble so how do we begin to carve out
that space for solitude are there things
that we can do and oh you've talked
about walking like what are some things
that people can do to train themselves
cuz obviously now most people are in a
very like you said Pavlovian response
cycle where it's not gonna have by
accident for them to stop so how do they
break out of that and what can they do
to reintroduce solitude
well just for the issue of solitude it's
pretty easy to get it back all you have
to do is on a regular basis do something
without your phone you basically go back
to about ten years ago not all the time
but just occasionally right so maybe one
you walked a dog at some point like I'm
not to bring my phone you're going to
the drugstore not gonna bring my phone
like just have some activity you do most
days without your phone even if it's 20
minutes there you're already getting
little doses of solitude you're breaking
the solitude complete solitude
deprivation syndrome one thing that I
see in your story that I think is really
powerful and I really want to like take
a second to drill down into it is your
way intense and you've said that you
know one thing I have to remind myself
every night we'll talk about feminine
and masculine energy a little bit later
but you have to remind yourself to
soften back up and the night I'm so
interesting so you've got this I really
like the titles I really want to go
after it I'm way intense I want to win
I'm all in getting in that kind of shape
is brutally difficult but then at the
same time you can balance it with the
playfulness and it's not all about that
how have you learned to strike that
balance and maybe more importantly how
do you teach other people to do that mmm
I've learned if I don't learn to strike
that balance that when I go to extreme
in either one I'm not I I'm not happy I
feel very scattered I feel frantic I
feel crazy so I think that for me when I
start feeling a little bit chaotic so
for me it shows up in a very like
grasping for straws things aren't
happening like I'm running into a wall
like the feeling of banging your head
against a wall that's what it feels like
for me and I know a lot of people can
relate to that and I think especially a
lot of people in Fitness might get into
it to kind of like maybe they're anxious
or it calms their nerves because I think
I run really on the anxious side so for
me if I don't learn how to control that
I'll go to the extreme of something so
it's a must for me I actually think it's
a must for everyone to kind of find how
to dance in the different categories of
your life because we're not just one
thing and when we go all in on one thing
were severely neglecting the
other parts of us which makes for an
empty human you know which makes for
someone who doesn't feel who never feels
full so I have to remember that there's
so many parts of me that I need to make
sure that I'm fulfilling for me play is
so important and when I was first when I
was first building my business and when
I was really getting into the fitness
world I neglected play and I neglected
I'm like I love being a weirdo I love
being a goofball
I love being funny and I thought that I
had to suppress that side of me in order
to win in order to be successful you
know school was College was frowned upon
and like really restrictive religion so
for me I think that in order to win and
be successful I thought that I had to
just shut down the goofy I had to be a
certain way I had to just drive so hard
and what happened is the driving got me
somewhere it drive drive drive drive do
it do it and you know the voice in my
head was like it was very like a
hardcore coach which would get me
somewhere but there was no joy along the
way so every time I'd wind up somewhere
I was like well I thought this would be
way better then what I've actually here
and and that wasn't even fun was it even
worth it and now it's never enough it's
like never enough and I just felt so
empty as well because this part of me
that I loved I loved that side of me
I love the silly goofy side it's like
that's when I really that feeling of
really liking yourself and feeling alive
that's when I feel most connected to
people and I that was another moment of
okay I really think that all of my power
might be in the complete vulnerability
and when I started sharing my story more
of you know I still have anxiety like
literally when I sat in this chair I was
like oh dang I think there's the wave
again I still have massive anxiety I'm
like a massive weirdo I when I started
sharing those things that was the people
just came flooding in because they can
see you like they can finally see who
you are
why are you so good at relationships
like what are a few of the things that
make you bond with people as quickly as
you do who I was come back to him there
must be an intention there so the
intention whether the intention covers
the intention for me came from you know
when I was on my deathbed and in you
know two times in my life I thought I
was gonna die and the one that gave me
the greatest gift was that did I love
part of did I lived I loved I matter
I saw scenes of my life when I thought I
was gonna die I saw scenes of my life
when I was surrounded by the people that
I loved and my instant feeling was I'm
gonna miss them and they're gonna miss
me and I'm dying and that's so sad and
that was as important as did I live my
life or did I make a difference it was
like I'm so sad and I got that as a 19
year old kid like a breakup of a
relationship sent me into suicide that
realization was like oh my god at the
end all you're gonna wonder is about
your family and your friends and people
you loved and all they're gonna miss you
so I got early that that one of the
objectives of this game has to be deep
relationships because you're gonna see
scenes of your life surrounded people
you love at the very end and I'm like so
live your life so it's this epic
beautiful movie and so I think that was
where the intention came from was I just
wanted to have great relationships
the second is I'm so good at recognizing
how awesome people are you know I just I
have a talent finding capability of just
goodness like I you know it you've been
in my world I don't attract hassles like
they're nowhere that I'm too annoying
I'm too happy for them there's too much
positive psychology happening so the
like I don't like that guy they
don't come to my seminars they don't buy
my stuff I repel all the jerks and I'm
super lucky by that I don't know it's
the way I look or the way that I talk I
think the other aspect is all I want to
do and what I realized early on from
reading personal dog looks is your life
creates a ripple and so I'm always
trying to realize that maybe I can make
somebody smile today and now when they
go home they're nice to the kid that's a
real thing and so I treat people with
that recognition because I don't fear
sometimes when someone treats you bad
it really does mess up the rest of your
day and I had people beat me when I was
a kid I got in fights when I was a kid I
was a martial artist most of my life so
I I've just had like super violent
things happen in my life I've had a lot
of drama with relationships early in my
life and I'm talking like pre 20s and I
just wanted to be the positive ripple
and I picked a path that you know a lot
of people pick I drank cooked up I
didn't really even go that far I just
wrote about the only reason people know
me about this is just because I wrote
about it in a funny way and then I kind
of took off and it led me to success and
then I kind of went a little excess but
if you ask me at 26 I'm like no no no my
parents you know they were fine
everything's great I'm perfectly happy
are you kidding everything's wonderful
it's not true what some wasn't true and
I just never thought about my emotions I
never really connected with them I had
never really I just had never really had
those conversations with myself or with
anybody else really and so part of
therapy was understanding first
recognizing the pain was there then it
was accepting that it actually existed
right which is hard like you think well
if you recognize it you accept it but no
no like I was in denial for a lot oh
well I'm not yeah all the stories like
you tell yourself oh well but other
people have it worse they do doesn't
mean like that my stuff doesn't deeply
impact me or you know it wasn't that bad
it may not have been it doesn't mean
it's not having an impact I mean all the
sort of that sort of stuff so I then had
to accept all this then I had to give
myself space to really investigate like
okay like what am I feeling like so
really kind of connecting my thoughts to
my emotions
which sounds like really basic and I
don't know I it just wasn't there I
think most people aren't that process of
this is so useful right and I don't know
if you have a sense that that this is so
unique to you'd never be beneficial but
like I get this question over and over
and over like no I'm how to become aware
yeah what they're going through no I'll
talk about it if you if you're yeah
listen I'll talk about it all right so I
mean all I can do is tell you what I did
right like I'm not gonna stare in well
here's the eight ways to do it and I
don't know I I can only know my path so
for me like that's why I picked
psychoanalysis because it's it's intense
you were going four days a week for an
hour a day right so for four years I did
this and what you're doing when you go
is it's not like it's not a good analyst
and I had a pretty good analyst is very
it's kind of like the classic you know
image of like you know laying on the
sofa and the analyst is kind of behind
you it's like that it's mainly you're
talking and then about what you're
thinking what you're feeling and then
they essentially do their best to
present basically a mirror to you right
so they ask questions or they point
things out and they never like say what
you're doing this wrong almost never
give advice they never tell you what's
right or wrong they're definitely not
judgmental
it's very accepting it's very like they
care it's very caring but it's also like
very reflective
[Music]
I had a really good friend of mine I
went to lunch and he said I don't know
who this guy is here
in front of me and he goes let me ask
you a question honestly right now what
are you grateful for and at the lunch I
said jack nothing brother
there's nothing good in my life right
now and I'm not exaggerating this to you
when I tell you this and this is a
factual story as I'm mouthing these
words two people walked in with an older
man both of them clearly were fighting
cancer somehow both had lost their hair
one of the ladies had a bonnet on and
they were barely moving in both walked
by our table and gave me the most warm
greeting the warmest smile as a stranger
and he goes that's pretty freaking
pathetic you can't find anything in your
life to be grateful for right now and on
the drive home I'm not kidding you I
started to stack gratitude I started to
taking inventory because if you can find
things to be grateful for in that space
man as your life gonna be rich when
there really are external things to be
grateful for
so my first mechanism out of that space
was honestly to stack the things I was
grateful for and I started reinforcing
it over and over and over again and what
happens is there's this reticular
activating system in our brains right
and all of a sudden because that's the
messaging I was giving myself all of a
sudden all these things start to come
into my awareness that I'm grateful for
I start to magnetized to myself some
people that I needed to find into my
life and that was the next layer I
started to see things to be grateful for
my health my fitness people who loved me
and what it is it changed my state when
I stacked gratitude I changed what I did
in the morning and I changed what I did
in the evening and so somehow by
grabbing control of my morning and by
grabbing control of my evening I got
some measure of control over the middle
of my day I was an out of control person
back in those days meaning this I woke
up worried stressed fearful and I
immediately start thinking about a bill
I had to pay something that was wrong
and I'm in a state of reaction to begin
every sound talking within six minutes
of waking up six seconds most people
listening to this that's what they do I
said I got to grab control of my morning
and I set up routines in my morning
maybe they serve me maybe they didn't
but they were things I could deliver on
doing for myself and so not only did
that give me control over the day but I
started to stack my self-confidence
[Music]
how in the depths of your despair did
you become okay with trying something
that you knew might fail like how did
you build yourself back up you know the
the daily practice was that the the
answer like you in your book choose
yourself you do this extraordinary
walkthrough of a kid reaches out to you
and he's like at that place where he's
just on the floor there's no getting up
there's there's even you said even
asking him to floss a single tooth would
have been asking too much and how do you
build back from that how did you build
back from that yeah so I mean it's
happened more than once to me sometimes
I would do things right and I get back
up and I'd be discipline and and you
know I would find opportunities and some
success again and then lose it again
lose everything to zero after making
millions again
and I remember one time I had built and
sold a second company or maybe this was
the third company and I was lying in a
hammock and I realized I just had lost
everything again and the hammock was in
between these two houses
I had bought on this nice piece of
property overlooking the Hudson River
and it was raining and I just didn't
feel like getting up it was just where
was I gonna go I had no nothing to do
nothing going on nothing to hope for and
I was just like what why did this happen
again
and I started to just bit by bit piece
it together like where did I feel
pleasure on the way up in such a way
that oh if I keep doing this if I keep
hitting the accelerator on this activity
good things will happen and that's what
I call it in the into yourself I call
this daily practice that now just every
day I make sure I factor in these four
things I'll say the four things but then
I'll say how from the beginning you can
do it so the four things that I started
doing and again this was just me I mean
I work for others might not am I am I
getting a little better in terms of
physical health now as you age your
physical health changes is different but
I'm at least attempting to
you understand and essentially eat move
sleep better every day
emotional health you know so many times
I thought I have a business opportunity
with this guy not such a great person I
could see there's some toxicity random
but this opportunity seems really huge
so I better ignore the bad sides of this
person and focus on the opportunity that
no situation is never at like zero of
those situations worked out and so so
you know I everyday I think am I
eliminating toxic people from my life
and focusing on positive people who I
love and want to support and they love
and want to support me and then every
day you could tweak that like a bonsai
tree there's always people moving in and
out of your life and you could always
tweak it and so that's emotional health
alright everybody I hope you enjoyed
learning how these amazing individuals
use self-care practices to help them
create the best versions of themselves
and now my hope is that you guys will be
able to prioritize your own needs and
help you achieve the same kind of
extraordinary success you need to take
care of you please don't forget that
thank you guys so much for watching and
until next time my friends be legendary
take care everyone I want to tell you
all about our sponsor whoop life can be
stressful we're all impacted by stress
differently though from what we do at
work how we train and our lives at home
we're constantly exerting ourselves and
oftentimes we only think about what we
do to stay fit and how we eat but we
overlook the importance of sleep in all
of this tomorrow's best work though is
done by night and our sponsor loop is a
fitness tracker strap with an incredible
app that helps monitor your sleep loop
provides the personalized insights to
make smarter performance habits from
your sleep loop tracks all things sleep
from your sleep cycles stages
disturbances and efficiency based on how
strenuous your day is loop will provide
suggested sleep times so your body is
able to get the rest it needs to recover
loop also automatically tracks workouts
so you can focus on your training loop
has a built in app that's a
and it has this cool feature that allows
you to track your strain from training
in real-time monitor your calories
burned heart rate and what zone your
heart is in the loop strap 3.0 has
five-day battery life and on-the-go
charging so you never need to take it
off and it's even waterproof you can
also sync your heart rate to compatible
treadmills bikes and rowers and the woot
membership service provides a fitness
tracker for free and gives members
access to their app which provides
personalized insight into recovery
strain and sleep if you're looking to be
smarter about how you sleep recover and
train so you can be at your best you
have to get whoop-whoop is offering 15%
off to our audience when you go to
woot.com and use the code I tee at
checkout that's WH o o P dot-com and use
the code I tee at checkout to save 15%
off your order
unlock your best self today with whoop
alright guys try this one out take care
and be legendary many people never
achieve their goals because they have
too many toxic negative energy draining
people in their lives and you have to
have goals outside of your comfort zone
that will challenge you because in order
to do something you've never done you've
got to become someone you've never been